Image guide updates (#1916)
withastro/docs: src/pages/en/guides/images.md

### In `.astro` files

> Astro uses standard HTML `<img>` or `<img />` elements to display images, and all HTML image attributes are supported. 

Reviewer: I read “`<img>` or `<img />`” as a typo at first — like trying to work out what the second was supposed to be instead. Do you think we can get away without showing the self-closing version?

```suggestion
Astro uses standard HTML `<img>` elements to display images, and all HTML image attributes are supported. 
```

Reviewer: Or — if we’re really concerned that `<img>` doesn’t work in MDX — we could write:

```suggestion
Astro uses standard HTML `<img />` elements to display images, and all HTML image attributes are supported. 
```

Although I think this might be technically inaccurate in that the “standard” HTML element is specifically `<img>` without the closing slash. 🤷

Author: I think we only really need to worry about what works in Astro (`.astro`) files here in this section. And, I think both work? Do you think it's fine just to say "HTML `<img>`" (we drop the "standard" and the self-closing one)?  Wait until someone complains?

Reviewer: “HTML `<img>`” works! And both work in `.astro` yup.

> Astro uses standard HTML `<img>` or `<img />` elements to display images, and all HTML image attributes are supported. 

Author: ```suggestion
Astro uses HTML `<img>` elements to display images, and all HTML image attributes are supported. 
```

<img src={rocket} alt="A rocketship in space."/>
```

### In Markdown files

You can use standard Markdown `![]()` syntax or standard HTML `<img>` tags in your `.md` files for images located in your `public/` folder, or remote images on another server.

> If you cannot keep your images in `public/`, we recommend using the Astro MDX integration to allow you to import and include components in Markdown.

Reviewer: My suggestion here could probably do with some further massaging, but it might be worth being specific that the integration doesn’t actually let you do extra stuff **IN** Markdown — you still need to switch to another format.

```suggestion
If you cannot keep your images in `public/`, we recommend using the `.mdx` file format, which allows you to combine imported components with Markdown-like syntax. Use the [MDX integration](/en/guides/integrations-guide/mdx/) to add support for MDX to Astro.
```

(I could also see an argument for moving this line _after_ the code sample? But I do like the consistent pattern of: heading, text, code sample.)

### `public/`

Your images stored in `public/` can be used by components (`.astro`, `.mdx` and other UI frameworks) and also Markdown files.

However, files in the `/public` directory are always served or copied as-is, with no processing. If you are using images outside of Markdown files, we recommend that local images are kept in `src/` when possible so that Astro can transform, optimize and bundle them.

The `src` attribute is **relative to the public folder**. In Markdown, you can also use the `![]()` notation.

```astro title="src/pages/index.astro"
---
// Access images in `public/images/`
---
<img src="/images/logo.png" />
```

## Astro's Image Integration

> Astro's official image integration provides two different Astro components for rendering optimized images, `<Image />` and `<Picture />`, as well as a basic image transformer. There is full support for both static sites and server-side rendering.

Reviewer 2: Because Image and Picture sound like synonyms, I like differentiating them. But I'm not sure what I wrote here is any good.
If we don't document `getImage`, it might be confusing to mention here
```suggestion
Astro's official image integration provides two different Astro components for rendering optimized images, `<Image />` and `<Picture />`. `<Image/>` lets you optimize a single image, and `<Picture/>` lets you send a set of images for the most optimal one be chosen in the browser. There is full support for both static sites and server-side rendering.
```

Author: I agree with ditching the transformer, but I was keeping this simple here, and under each one I do say what they are for, and for Image, when they might prefer to use Picture. I *think* that's enough, and doesn't front-load the info?

Reviewer 2: My thought was that we'd want to explain the difference upfront so they can understand why there are two without reading both sections - but I don't think it's totally necessary!

> Astro's official image integration provides two different Astro components for rendering optimized images, `<Image />` and `<Picture />`, as well as a basic image transformer. There is full support for both static sites and server-side rendering.

Author: ```suggestion
Astro's official image integration provides two different Astro components for rendering optimized images, `<Image />` and `<Picture />`. There is full support for both static sites and server-side rendering.
```

After [installing the integration](/en/guides/integrations-guide/image/#installation), you can import and use these two components wherever you can use Astro components: `.astro` and `.mdx` files.

### `<Image />`

Astro's [`<Image />` component](/en/guides/integrations-guide/image/#image-) allows you to optimize a single image and specify width, height, and/or aspect ratio. You can even transform your image to a particular output format.

> This component is useful for images where you want to keep a consistent size across displays, or closely control the quality of an image (e.g. logos). 

Author: ```suggestion
This component is useful for images where you want to keep a consistent size across displays, or closely control the quality of an image (e.g. logos).
```

### `public/`

Your images stored in `public/` can be used by components (`.astro`, `.mdx` and other UI frameworks) and also Markdown files.

> However, files in the `/public` directory are always served or copied as-is, with no processing. We recommend that local images are kept in `src/` when possible so that Astro can transform, optimize and bundle them.

Reviewer: Doing this means you _can’t_ use the images in Markdown right? Do we want to call that out? If you have a Markdown-powered blog, we specifically would _not_ recommend images in `src/`, I guess.

```suggestion
However, files in the `/public` directory are always served or copied as-is, with no processing. If you are using images outside of Markdown files, we recommend that local images are kept in `src/` when possible so that Astro can transform, optimize and bundle them.
```

Author: I was wondering if the "when possible" was strong enough on its own, since the corresponding section on in `src` says that you can NOT use Markdown with your images there.

Reviewer: “We recommend” is pretty strong. Do we think a reader has a clear picture of what “when possible” means? I’d be worried they miss the `src` comment — unless it’s perhaps really highlighted in a caution? But I like the goal here of getting rid of those!

## Astro's Image Integration

> Astro's official image integration provides two different Astro components for rendering optimized images: `<Image />` and `<Picture />` as well as a basic image transformer, with full support for static sites and server-side rendering.

Author: ```suggestion
Astro's official image integration provides two different Astro components for rendering optimized images, `<Image />` and `<Picture />`, as well as a basic image transformer, with full support for static sites and server-side rendering.
```

#### Local Images in `public/`

> The `<Image />` component can also be used with images stored in the `public/` directory and the `src` attribute is relative to the public folder. It will be treated as a remote image, which requires either both `width` and `height`, or one dimension and an `aspectRatio` attribute. 

Reviewer: Ooh, this is weird! 😂 TIL.

Author: This is not the weirdest thing about our image integration... 😅

> Note that your original image will be copied unprocessed to the build folder, like all files located in `public/`. However, Astro's image integration is still able to return optimized versions of your images stored in `public/`.

Reviewer: Style nit + is it copied BUT or copied AND?

```suggestion
Your original image will be copied unprocessed to the build folder, like all files located in `public/`, and Astro's image integration will also return optimized versions of the image.
```

Author: I like what you wrote better, but there's a difference between SSG and SSR  😅 , so I just want to make sure this still is accurate.

In SSR, only the original image is copied over, but the fetch call returns an optimized image (without creating a second image in your build folder). In SSG, you end up with TWO copies of your image copied into the build folder: the original, and an optimized one.

I think that's why I said "is able to return" which admittedly sounds clunky. I think "will also return" is legit here, eh?

Reviewer: Yeah, I think “will also return” is ok! There’s nothing in here that really explains any of that SSR/SSG distinction and “return” is sufficiently vague as to not mean “copy to `dist`”, I think, so would apply in all scenarios.

<Picture src={galaxy} widths={[200, 400, 800]} aspectRatio={16/9} sizes="(max-width: 800px) 100vw, 800px" alt="Outer space." />
```

### Setting Default Values

Currently, there is no way to specify default values for all `<Image />` and `<Picture />` components. Required attributes should be set on each individual component.

As an alternative, you can wrap these components in another Astro component for reuse. For example, you could create a component for your blog post images:

```astro title="src/components/BlogPostImage.astro"
---
import { Picture } from '@astrojs/image/components';

const {src, ...attrs} = Astro.props;
---
<Picture src={src} widths={[400, 800, 1500]} sizes="(max-width: 767px) 100vw, 736px" {...attrs} />

<style>
  img, picture :global(img), svg {

>     @apply rounded-xl shadow-lg my-10;

Reviewer: Torn on using Tailwind syntax here. Do we hate a slightly longer, vanilla CSS version?

```suggestion
    margin-block: 2.5rem;
    border-radius: 0.75rem;
```

Author: Oh not torn at all! I explicitly wrote in my comment at the beginning, PLZ UN-TAILWIND the example!  😅

  }
</style>
```

## Using Images from a CMS or CDN

Image CDNs work with Astro. Use an image's full URL as the `src` attribute in an `<img>` tag or Markdown notation. 

These are treated as remote images by the `<Image />` and `<Picture />` components, so they will require you to specify dimension and format values.

Alternatively, if the CDN provides a Node.js SDK, you can use that in your project. For example, [Cloudinary’s SDK](https://cloudinary.com/documentation/node_integration) can generate the `<img>` tag with the appropriate `src` for you.

## Alt Text

Not all users can see images in the same way, so accessibility is an especially important concern when using images. Use the `alt` attribute to provide [descriptive alt text](https://www.w3.org/WAI/tutorials/images/) for images. 

> This attribute is required for the Image integration's `<Image />` and `<Picture />` components. These components will throw an error if no alt text is provided. 

Reviewer: Elsewhere we say “image integration” all lowercase — should this be the same?

```suggestion
This attribute is required for the image integration's `<Image />` and `<Picture />` components. These components will throw an error if no alt text is provided. 
```

> If the image is merely decorative (i.e. doesn’t contribute to the understanding of the page), set `alt=""` so that the image is properly understood and ignored by screen readers.

Reviewer: I think we can simplify here maybe?

```suggestion
If the image is merely decorative (i.e. doesn’t contribute to the understanding of the page), set `alt=""` so that screen readers know to ignore the image.
```
